Link: [1657. Determine if Two Strings Are Close](https://leetcode.com/problems/determine-if-two-strings-are-close/) <br>
Tag : **Medium**<br>
Lock: **Normal**

Two strings are considered **close** if you can attain one from the other using the following operations:

-   Operation 1: Swap any two **existing** characters.
    -   For example, `abcde -> aecdb`
-   Operation 2: Transform **every** occurrence of one **existing** character into another **existing** character, and do the same with the other character.
    -   For example, `aacabb -> bbcbaa` (all `a`'s turn into `b`'s, and all `b`'s turn into `a`'s)

You can use the operations on either string as many times as necessary.

Given two strings, `word1` and `word2`, return `true` _if_ `word1` _and_ `word2` _are **close**, and_ `false` _otherwise._

**Example 1:**
```
Input: word1 = "abc", word2 = "bca"
Output: true
Explanation: You can attain word2 from word1 in 2 operations.
Apply Operation 1: "abc" -> "acb"
Apply Operation 1: "acb" -> "bca"
```

**Example 2:**
```
Input: word1 = "a", word2 = "aa"
Output: false
Explanation: It is impossible to attain word2 from word1, or vice versa, in any number of operations.
```

**Example 3:**
```
Input: word1 = "cabbba", word2 = "abbccc"
Output: true
Explanation: You can attain word2 from word1 in 3 operations.
Apply Operation 1: "cabbba" -> "caabbb"
Apply Operation 2: "caabbb" -> "baaccc"
Apply Operation 2: "baaccc" -> "abbccc"
```

**Constraints:**
-   `1 <= word1.length, word2.length <= 105`
-   `word1` and `word2` contain only lowercase English letters.

**Solution:**

- [x] [[Hash Table]]

**Intuition** :

**Algorithm**

-   Build arrays `word1Map` and `word2Map` of size 26 to store the frequencies of each character `(a-z)`.
    
-   For the first condition, we must check if the characters in `word1` and `word2` are the same. There could be multiple ways to implement this. One way is to iterate over each frequency map of size 26 and ensure if a character does not exist in `word1Map`, then it must not exist in `word2Map` as well and vice versa. If the condition is not satisfied for any of the characters, return false.
    
-   For the second condition, we could simply sort the array in increasing order and return true if arrays are equal, otherwise return false.

```
n = max len of string one and two

**Time Complexity** : O(n)<br>
**Space Complexity** : O(n)

```java
    public boolean closeStrings(String one, String two) {
        if (one.length() != two.length()) return false;
        
        Map<Character, Integer> freqOne = new HashMap<>(),
                                freqTwo = new HashMap<>();
        Map<Integer, Integer> freq = new HashMap<>();
        for (char ch : one.toCharArray()) freqOne.merge(ch, 1, Integer::sum);
        for (char ch : two.toCharArray()) freqTwo.merge(ch, 1, Integer::sum);
        
        for (int count : freqOne.values()) freq.merge(count, 1, Integer::sum);
        for (int count : freqTwo.values()) {
            freq.merge(count, -1, Integer::sum);
            if (freq.get(count) == 0) freq.remove(count);
        }
        Set<Character> wordsOne = new HashSet<>(freqOne.keySet()),
                       wordsTwo = new HashSet<>(freqTwo.keySet());
        wordsOne.removeAll(freqTwo.keySet());
        wordsTwo.removeAll(freqOne.keySet());
        if (!wordsOne.isEmpty() || !wordsTwo.isEmpty()) return false;
        return freq.isEmpty();
    }
```
