Link: [1813. Sentence Similarity III](https://leetcode.com/problems/sentence-similarity-iii/) <br>
Tag : **Medium**<br>
Lock: **Normal**

A sentence is a list of words that are separated by a single space with no leading or trailing spaces. For example, `"Hello World"`, `"HELLO"`, `"hello world hello world"` are all sentences. Words consist of **only** uppercase and lowercase English letters.

Two sentences `sentence1` and `sentence2` are **similar** if it is possible to insert an arbitrary sentence **(possibly empty)** inside one of these sentences such that the two sentences become equal. For example, `sentence1 = "Hello my name is Jane"` and `sentence2 = "Hello Jane"` can be made equal by inserting `"my name is"` between `"Hello"` and `"Jane"` in `sentence2`.

Given two sentences `sentence1` and `sentence2`, return `true` _if_ `sentence1` _and_ `sentence2` _are similar._ Otherwise, return `false`.

**Example 1:**
```
Input: sentence1 = "My name is Haley", sentence2 = "My Haley"
Output: true
Explanation: sentence2 can be turned to sentence1 by inserting "name is" between "My" and "Haley".
```

**Example 2:**
```
Input: sentence1 = "of", sentence2 = "A lot of words"
Output: false
Explanation: No single sentence can be inserted inside one of the sentences to make it equal to the other.
```

**Example 3:**
```
Input: sentence1 = "Eating right now", sentence2 = "Eating"
Output: true
Explanation: sentence2 can be turned to sentence1 by inserting "right now" at the end of the sentence.
```

**Constraints:**
-   `1 <= sentence1.length, sentence2.length <= 100`
-   `sentence1` and `sentence2` consist of lowercase and uppercase English letters and spaces.
-   The words in `sentence1` and `sentence2` are separated by a single space.

**Solution:**

- [x] [[Two Pointer]]

**Intuition** :
Scan the shorter sentence compare with the longer.
1.  Split the two sentences into words
2.  Scan the shorter one from left and compare word by word with the longer; Whenever the words from the `2` sentences are not equal, compare the tails of the `2` sentences word by word till the end or they do not match
3.  Confirm if the pointer reaches the end of shorter sentence. If yes, return `true`; otherwise, return `false`.

```
n = is max length of one and two

**Time Complexity** : O(n)<br>
**Space Complexity** : O(n)

```java
    public boolean areSentencesSimilar(String one, String two) {
        String[] wordOne = one.split(" "),
                 wordTwo = two.split(" ");
        int lenOne = wordOne.length,
            lenTwo = wordTwo.length;
        if (lenOne > lenTwo)
            return areSentencesSimilar(two, one);
        
        int i = 0;
        while (i < lenOne && wordOne[i].equals(wordTwo[i])) i++;
        while (i < lenOne && wordOne[i].equals(wordTwo[lenTwo - lenOne + i])) i++;
        return i == lenOne;
    }
```
