Link: [249. Group Shifted Strings](https://leetcode.com/problems/group-shifted-strings/) <br>
Tag : **Medium**<br>
Lock: **Premium**

We can shift a string by shifting each of its letters to its successive letter.

-   For example, `"abc"` can be shifted to be `"bcd"`.

We can keep shifting the string to form a sequence.

-   For example, we can keep shifting `"abc"` to form the sequence: `"abc" -> "bcd" -> ... -> "xyz"`.

Given an array of strings `strings`, group all `strings[i]` that belong to the same shifting sequence. You may return the answer in **any order**.

**Example 1:**
```
Input: strings = ["abc","bcd","acef","xyz","az","ba","a","z"]
Output: [["acef"],["a","z"],["abc","bcd","xyz"],["az","ba"]]
```

**Example 2:**
```
Input: strings = ["a"]
Output: [["a"]]
```

**Constraints:**
-   `1 <= strings.length <= 200`
-   `1 <= strings[i].length <= 50`
-   `strings[i]` consists of lowercase English letters.

**Solution:**
- [x] [[Hash Table]]

**Intuition** :
We can solve this problem by mapping each `string` in `strings` to a `key` in a `hashmap`. We then return `hashmap.values()`.

```
{
     (1, 1): ['abc', 'bcd', 'xyz'],  
  (2, 2, 1): ['acef'],   
      (25,): ['az', 'ba'],   
         (): ['a', 'z']
}
```

-   The key can be represented as a tuple of the "differences" between adjacent characters. Characters map to integers (e.g. `ord('a') = 97`). For example, 'abc' maps to `(1,1)` because `ord('b') - ord('a') = 1` and `ord('c') - ord('b') = 1`
-   We need to watch out for the "wraparound" case - for example, `'az'` and `'ba'` should map to the same "shift group" as `a + 1 = b` and `z + 1 = a`. Given the above point, the respective tuples would be `(25,)` (122 - 97) and `(-1,)` (79 - 80) and `az` and `ba` would map to different groups. This is incorrect.
-   To account for this case, we add 26 to the difference between letters (smallest difference possible is -25, `za`) and mod by 26. So, (**26** + 122 - 97) **% 26** and (**26** + 79 - 80) **% 26** both equal `(25,)`

```
n = is the no. of strings
m = is the max length of string

**Time Complexity** : O(n*m)<br>
**Space Complexity** : O(n*m)

```java
    public List<List<String>> groupStrings(String[] strings) {
        
        Map<String, List<String>> group = new HashMap<>();
        for (String string : strings)
            group.computeIfAbsent(hash(string), item -> new LinkedList<>()).add(string);
        
        return new LinkedList<>(group.values());
    }
    private String hash(String source) {
        StringBuilder sb = new StringBuilder();
        char point = source.charAt(0);
        for (char ch : source.toCharArray())
            sb.append(((int) ch - (int) point + 26) % 26).append("|");
        return sb.toString();
    }
```
