Link: [269. Alien Dictionary](https://leetcode.com/problems/alien-dictionary/) <br>
Tag : **Hard**<br>
Lock: **Premium**

There is a new alien language that uses the English alphabet. However, the order among the letters is unknown to you.

You are given a list of strings `words` from the alien language's dictionary, where the strings in `words` are **sorted lexicographically** by the rules of this new language.

Return _a string of the unique letters in the new alien language sorted in **lexicographically increasing order** by the new language's rules. If there is no solution, return_ `""`_. If there are multiple solutions, return **any of them**_.

A string `s` is **lexicographically smaller** than a string `t` if at the first letter where they differ, the letter in `s` comes before the letter in `t` in the alien language. If the first `min(s.length, t.length)` letters are the same, then `s` is smaller if and only if `s.length < t.length`.

**Example 1:**
```
Input: words = ["wrt","wrf","er","ett","rftt"]
Output: "wertf"
```

**Example 2:**
```
Input: words = ["z","x"]
Output: "zx"
```

**Example 3:**
```
Input: words = ["z","x","z"]
Output: ""
Explanation: The order is invalid, so return "".
```

**Constraints:**
-   `1 <= words.length <= 100`
-   `1 <= words[i].length <= 100`
-   `words[i]` consists of only lowercase English letters.

**Solution:**

- [x] [[Depth First Search]] + [[Topological-Sort]]

**Intuition** :
Another approach to the third part is to use a depth-first search. We still need to extract relations and then generate an adjacency list in the same way as before, but this time we don't need the `indegrees` map.

Recall that in a depth-first search, nodes are returned once they either have no outgoing links left, or all their outgoing links have been visited. Therefore, the order in which nodes are returned by the depth-first search will be the reverse of a valid alphabet order.

**Algorithm**

If we made a reverse adjacency list instead of a forward one, the output order would be correct (without needing to be reversed). Remember that when we reverse the edges of a directed graph, the nodes with no incoming edges became the ones with no outgoing edges. This means that the ones at the start of the alphabet will now be the ones returned first.

One issue we need to be careful of is cycles. In directed graphs, we often detect cycles by using **graph colouring**. All nodes start as white, and then once they're first visited they become grey, and then once all their outgoing nodes have been fully explored, they become black. We know there is a cycle if we _enter_ a node that is currently grey (it works because all nodes that are currently on the stack are grey. Nodes are changed to black when they are removed from the stack).

Here is an animation showing the DFS, starting from a reverse adjacency list of the input.

```
n = total length of all the words in the input list, added together

**Time Complexity** : O(n)<br>
**Space Complexity** : O(1) or O(26<sup>2</sup>)

```java
    Map<Character, Set<Character>> graph;
    public String alienOrder(String[] words) {
        StringBuilder chars = new StringBuilder();
        Set<Character> visited = new HashSet<>();
        
        if (!initilizeGraph(words))
            return "";
        
        for (char ch : graph.keySet())
            if (!depthFirstSearch(ch, visited, new HashSet<>(), chars))
                return "";

        return chars.reverse().toString();
    }
    private boolean depthFirstSearch(char source, Set<Character> visited, Set<Character> visiting, StringBuilder chars) {
        if (visiting.contains(source)) return false;
        if (visited.contains(source)) return true;
        
        visiting.add(source);
        visited.add(source);
        
        for (char child : graph.getOrDefault(source, new HashSet<>()))
            if (!depthFirstSearch(child, visited, visiting, chars))
                return false;

        visiting.remove(source);
        chars.append(source);
        return true;
    }
    private boolean initilizeGraph(String[] words) {
        graph = new HashMap<>();
        for (int i = 0; i < words.length; i++) {
            String curr = words[i];
            for (char ch : curr.toCharArray())
                graph.putIfAbsent(ch, new HashSet<>());
            
            if (i == 0) continue;
            String prev = words[i - 1];
            
            int len = Math.min(prev.length(), curr.length());
            if(prev.length() > curr.length() && 
               prev.substring(0,len).equals(curr.substring(0,len)))
                return false;
            
            for (int j = 0; j < Math.min(prev.length(), curr.length()); j++) {
                char one = prev.charAt(j),
                        two = curr.charAt(j);
                
                if (one != two) {
                    graph.get(one).add(two);
                    break;
                }
            }
        }
        return true;
    }
```
