Link: [362. Design Hit Counter](https://leetcode.com/problems/design-hit-counter/) <br>
Tag : **Medium**<br>
Lock: **Premium**

Design a hit counter which counts the number of hits received in the past `5` minutes (i.e., the past `300` seconds).

Your system should accept a `timestamp` parameter (**in seconds** granularity), and you may assume that calls are being made to the system in chronological order (i.e., `timestamp` is monotonically increasing). Several hits may arrive roughly at the same time.

Implement the `HitCounter` class:

-   `HitCounter()` Initializes the object of the hit counter system.
-   `void hit(int timestamp)` Records a hit that happened at `timestamp` (**in seconds**). Several hits may happen at the same `timestamp`.
-   `int getHits(int timestamp)` Returns the number of hits in the past 5 minutes from `timestamp` (i.e., the past `300` seconds).

**Example 1:**
```
Input
["HitCounter", "hit", "hit", "hit", "getHits", "hit", "getHits", "getHits"]
[[], [1], [2], [3], [4], [300], [300], [301]]
Output
[null, null, null, null, 3, null, 4, 3]

Explanation
HitCounter hitCounter = new HitCounter();
hitCounter.hit(1);       // hit at timestamp 1.
hitCounter.hit(2);       // hit at timestamp 2.
hitCounter.hit(3);       // hit at timestamp 3.
hitCounter.getHits(4);   // get hits at timestamp 4, return 3.
hitCounter.hit(300);     // hit at timestamp 300.
hitCounter.getHits(300); // get hits at timestamp 300, return 4.
hitCounter.getHits(301); // get hits at timestamp 301, return 3.
```

**Constraints:**
-   `1 <= timestamp <= 2 * 109`
-   All the calls are being made to the system in chronological order (i.e., `timestamp` is monotonically increasing).
-   At most `300` calls will be made to `hit` and `getHits`.

**Follow up:** What if the number of hits per second could be huge? Does your design scale?

**Solution:**

- [x] [[Design]] + [[Binary Search]]

**Intuition** :
O(s) s is total seconds in given time interval, in this case 300.  
basic ideal is using buckets. 1 bucket for every second because we only need to keep the recent hits info for 300 seconds. hit[] array is wrapped around by mod operation. Each hit bucket is associated with times[] bucket which record current time. If it is not current time, it means it is 300s or 600s... ago and need to reset to 1.

```
n = is the total no of time stamps

**Time Complexity** : O(log(n))<br>
**Space Complexity** : O(n)

```java
class HitCounter {

    List<Integer> queue = new LinkedList<>();
    public HitCounter() {
        
    }
    
    public void hit(int timestamp) {
        queue.add(timestamp);
    }
    
    public int getHits(int timestamp) {
        int index = Collections.binarySearch(queue, timestamp - 300);
        if (index < 0) index = ~index;
        if (index < queue.size() && 
            queue.get(index) == timestamp - 300) index++;
        return queue.size() - index;
    }
}

/**
 * Your HitCounter object will be instantiated and called as such:
 * HitCounter obj = new HitCounter();
 * obj.hit(timestamp);
 * int param_2 = obj.getHits(timestamp);
 */
```
