Link: [789. Escape The Ghosts](https://leetcode.com/problems/escape-the-ghosts/) <br>
Tag : **Medium**<br>
Lock: **Normal**

You are playing a simplified PAC-MAN game on an infinite 2-D grid. You start at the point `[0, 0]`, and you are given a destination point `target = [xtarget, ytarget]` that you are trying to get to. There are several ghosts on the map with their starting positions given as a 2D array `ghosts`, where `ghosts[i] = [xi, yi]` represents the starting position of the `ith` ghost. All inputs are **integral coordinates**.

Each turn, you and all the ghosts may independently choose to either **move 1 unit** in any of the four cardinal directions: north, east, south, or west, or **stay still**. All actions happen **simultaneously**.

You escape if and only if you can reach the target **before** any ghost reaches you. If you reach any square (including the target) at the **same time** as a ghost, it **does not** count as an escape.

Return `true` _if it is possible to escape regardless of how the ghosts move, otherwise return_ `false`_._

**Example 1:**
```
Input: ghosts = [[1,0],[0,3]], target = [0,1]
Output: true
Explanation: You can reach the destination (0, 1) after 1 turn, while the ghosts located at (1, 0) and (0, 3) cannot catch up with you.
```

**Example 2:**
```
Input: ghosts = [[1,0]], target = [2,0]
Output: false
Explanation: You need to reach the destination (2, 0), but the ghost at (1, 0) lies between you and the destination.
```

**Example 3:**
```
Input: ghosts = [[2,0]], target = [1,0]
Output: false
Explanation: The ghost can reach the target at the same time as you.
```

**Constraints:**
-   `1 <= ghosts.length <= 100`
-   `ghosts[i].length == 2`
-   `-104 <= xi, yi <= 104`
-   There can be **multiple ghosts** in the same location.
-   `target.length == 2`
-   `-104 <= xtarget, ytarget <= 104`

**Solution:**
- [x] [[Math]] 

**Intuition** :
The _taxicab_ distance is the number of moves required to get from point `A` to point `B` in our grid. It is calculated as `dist(A, B) = abs(A.x - B.x) + abs(A.y - B.y)`.
Let's say we start at `S`, the ghost starts at `G`, the target is `T`, and the ghost first meets us at `X`. This implies `dist(G, X) <= dist(S, X)`, as the ghost must reach `X` before or at the time that we do.
Now, if the ghost travels from `G` to `X` and then to `T`, it will reach `T` at time `dist(G, T) <= dist(G, X) + dist(X, T) <= dist(S, X) + dist(X, T)`. The first inequality is because of the _triangle inequality_ that all distance metrics satisfy.
The above shows that it is at least as good for the ghost to just travel directly to the target: if it could reach us beforehand (at `X`), it will also reach us if it goes to `X` then to `T`, and then it would reach us if it just went directly to `T`.
Also, if the ghost goes directly to the target, then a necessary condition is clearly that we get to the target before the ghost.
Once we can make the assumption that all parties just go directly to the target in the shortest time possible, the problem is greatly simplified.

**Algorithm**
Check that our (taxicab) distance to the target is smaller than the distance from any ghost to the target.

```
n = is a number of ghosts

**Time Complexity** : O(n)<br>
**Space Complexity** : O(1)

```java
    public boolean escapeGhosts(int[][] ghosts, int[] target) {
        
        int dist = dist(new int[]{0, 0}, target);
        for (int[] ghost : ghosts)
            if (dist >= dist(ghost, target))
                return false;
        
        return true;
    }
    private int dist(int[] one, int[] two) {
        return Math.abs(one[0] - two[0]) + Math.abs(one[1] - two[1]);
    }
```
